AGENTIC AI — SEMESTER PROJECT
AI-Powered Animated Video Generation System
From Prompt to Polished Short Film — End-to-End with LLM Agents

Group Size: 4 Members | Course: Agentic AI | Project Type: Full-Stack AI System

Submission Guidelines
• Submission deadline is 5th May (11:59 PM). Late submissions will not be accepted without prior
approval.
• Each group must consist of 4 members. Cross-section groups are allowed.
• The project must be submitted by only one representative from each group on both GitHub and
Google Classroom.
• Each group must create a GitHub repository containing the complete project. The repository should
include:
o A well-organized codebase structured according to all project phases.
o A root README.md file describing the project overview, setup instructions, technology
stack, and execution steps.
o Implementation of all phases:
▪ Story and Script Generation (Phase 1)
▪ Audio Generation (Phase 2)
▪ Video Composition (Phase 3)
▪ Web Interface (Phase 4)
▪ Edit Agent with Undo Functionality (Phase 5)
o A requirements.txt (or equivalent dependency file).
o Sample outputs (audio, images, or video) where applicable.
o Unit tests for individual phases.
o Proper commit history demonstrating incremental development.
• The repository must be public or shared with instructor access. The naming convention should
follow:
AgenticAI_Project_<GroupName>
• On Google Classroom, the submitting member must upload:
o GitHub repository link
o Project report (PDF, 8–12 pages)
o Demo video or screen recording
o Presentation slides (if prepared)
• The project report must include system architecture, phase-wise implementation details, tools and
APIs used, JSON schema design, challenges faced, results, and individual contributions.
• The demo video (3–7 minutes) must clearly demonstrate the full pipeline from prompt to final video,
along with at least three edits and two undo/revert operations through the editing agent.
• All submissions must be original. Any form of plagiarism will result in zero marks.
• Incomplete repositories, missing components, or non-functional pipelines will be penalized.
• Each phase should be modular, properly integrated, and independently testable.
• Students are strongly advised to finalize the shared JSON schema at the beginning, as it is critical for
integration across all phases.

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, Islamabad

Agentic AI Project 2026 Page 2
1. Project Overview
This project challenges your group to build an end-to-end, agent-orchestrated system that accepts a single
natural-language prompt from a user and autonomously produces a complete short animated video — including
story, dialogue, character voices, visual scenes, and final composited output — with zero manual creative
intervention.

The system is not a simple API wrapper. It is a multi-phase agentic pipeline where each phase is a distinct AI-
powered module with defined inputs, outputs, and responsibilities. The four phases map directly to the four

group members, and the entire pipeline is unified by a web interface that orchestrates, monitors, and allows re-
running of individual phases.

2. Problem Statement
Creating even a short, animated video today requires a team of writers, voice artists, illustrators, animators, and
audio engineers — a process that takes days or weeks and costs thousands of dollars. The rise of generative AI
models across language, audio, and vision domains makes it theoretically possible to automate this entire
pipeline, yet no student-accessible, open-source, end-to-end solution exists that ties all of these components
together with an intelligent orchestration layer.
This project solves exactly that problem. Your group will design and implement:
• An LLM-based creative agent that turns a raw user prompt into a structured, scene-by-scene story with
full character definitions.
• A voice synthesis module that assigns consistent, character-specific voices and produces a
synchronized audio track with background music.
• A visual generation and composition module that produces per-scene imagery, animates it, syncs it with
audio, and exports a final MP4.
• A full-stack web application that serves as the user-facing interface and the agent orchestration layer
for all pipeline phases.
• An intelligent editing agent that interprets free-text edit commands, detects the target component
(audio, video frame, or full video), executes the change, and maintains a versioned state history with
full undo support.
3. Learning Objectives
Upon completing this project, each group member will have demonstrated the ability to:
1. Design and implement a multi-agent workflow using LangChain and/or LangGraph.
2. Integrate heterogeneous AI APIs and local models within a single production pipeline.
3. Apply structured output techniques (JSON schema enforcement, prompt chaining) with LLMs.
4. Build a real-time, phase-aware full-stack web application.
5. Handle stateful, versioned data across an agentic pipeline (including undo/revert logic).
6. Collaborate on a modular codebase with clearly defined inter-phase contracts (data schemas).

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, Islamabad

Agentic AI Project 2026 Page 3
4. System Architecture
The system consists of five modules. The first four are core pipeline phases; the fifth is the editing agent. All
modules communicate through a shared data schema — a central JSON state object that is passed forward,
updated, and versioned by each phase.

Phase 1: Story, Script & Character Design
Input A free-form natural language prompt from the user (e.g., "A young astronaut discovers a

hidden ocean on Mars")

LLM Role Expand prompt → full narrative → scene-by-scene script with dialogue, setting, tone, and
duration → character roster with names, roles, voice personalities, and visual descriptions
Output A validated JSON object: { story, scenes[], characters[] } consumed by all downstream

phases

Tools / APIs LangChain / LangGraph agent; local model via Ollama/llama.cpp OR cloud API (Claude /

GPT-4); Pydantic schema validation

Responsibility Member 1

Phase 2: Audio Generation & Integration
Input scenes[] and characters[] from Phase 1 JSON
Tasks TTS synthesis per dialogue line with per-character voice parameters; background music
selection or generation per scene mood; assembly of audio segments into a timing manifest
Output Audio files (.wav/.mp3) per line + a timing_manifest.json ({ scene_id, audio_file, start_ms,

end_ms })

Tools / APIs ElevenLabs API (cloud) or Coqui TTS / Bark (local); optional MusicGen or royalty -free

library for BGM
Responsibility Member 2

Phase 3: Video Generation & Composition
Input scenes[] from Phase 1 JSON + timing_manifest.json from Phase 2
Tasks Per-scene image generation using prompt-engineered visual descriptions; light animation
(zoom/pan/Ken Burns) via FFmpeg or MoviePy; A/V sync using timing manifest; subtitle
overlay (optional); compositing all scenes with transitions into final MP4

Output final_output.mp4 — the finished animated short video
Tools / APIs Stable Diffusion (local via Automatic1111 / ComfyUI) or DALL-E / RunwayML (API);

FFmpeg; MoviePy
Responsibility Member 3

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, Islamabad

Agentic AI Project 2026 Page 4
Phase 4: Deployment & Web Interface
Input User prompt (initiates pipeline); phase outputs from Phases 1–3
Tasks Provide a prompt input UI; display real-time per-phase progress; offer phase-level re-run

buttons (e.g., regenerate voice only); serve final video preview and download

Output A deployed full-stack web application
Tools / APIs FastAPI or Django (backend); React or Next.js (frontend); WebSocket or SSE for live

progress; Docker (optional for deployment)

Responsibility Member 4

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, Islamabad

Agentic AI Project 2026 Page 5

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, Islamabad

Agentic AI Project 2026 Page 6
5. Last Phase — Intelligent Edit & Undo System
After the pipeline produces its initial output, the user should be able to describe edits in plain natural language
— just as they would instruct a human editor. The system must understand what they want to change, identify
which component is the target (audio, video frame, or full video), execute the change, and allow the user to
revert to any previous state. For an example you can store collection of filter for images and upon query of use
apply that filter or set of filters.
5.1 What the User Can Say
The editing interface is a free-text input field. Examples of valid user queries:
Example User Query Detected Target Action Taken
"Change voice tone" Audio Re-run TTS for the specified character/scene with new

tone parameter

"Make the scene darker" Video Frame Re-generate that scene's visual prompt with updated

aesthetic descriptor

"Add background music" Audio Fetch/generate and overlay new background track for

target scene

"Remove the subtitle" Video Recompose video output without subtitle burn-in
"Change character design" Video Frame Re-run image generation for all frames featuring that

character

"Speed up this scene" Video Adjust FFmpeg timing parameters for target clip segment
"Regenerate the script" Script Re-invoke LLM story phase with revised or same seed

prompt

5.2 Intent Detection — How the Agent Knows What to Edit
An LLM-powered classification agent (built with LangGraph) receives the raw edit query and outputs a
structured intent object:
{ "intent": "change_voice_tone", "target": "audio", "scope": "character:Narrator", "parameters": { "tone":
"whispered" } }
The agent uses keyword extraction, semantic matching, and structured output parsing (Pydantic or JSON
schema) to reliably classify each query into one of the following target categories:
• audio — Targets TTS output or background music. Triggers re-synthesis of affected audio segments
only.
• video_frame — Targets still image generation for one or more scenes. Triggers re-run of the image
generation step for those scenes.
• video — Targets the full compositing/export step. Triggers recomposition with updated parameters
without regenerating assets.
• script — Targets the story/script output. Re-invokes Phase 1 and cascades changes through all
downstream phases.

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, Islamabad

Agentic AI Project 2026 Page 7
5.3 State Versioning & Undo
Every time the pipeline produces or modifies an output, the system saves a state snapshot. The snapshot includes
all generated assets and the JSON state object at that moment. This enables full revert at any granularity:
• Each pipeline run or partial re-run increments a version counter (v1, v2, v3 ...).
• The user can view a version history panel in the UI showing what changed at each version.
• Clicking Undo or selecting a previous version restores all assets and the JSON state to that snapshot.
• The state store uses a simple append-only log (SQLite or file-based), ensuring no version is ever
permanently lost.
Recommended implementation pattern:
StateManager.snapshot(version, state_json, asset_paths) → persisted StateManager.revert(version) → restores
assets + state + updates UI StateManager.history() → returns list of all versions with diff summary
The LangGraph agent uses a checkpointer (LangGraph's built-in MemorySaver or SqliteSaver) to persist the
agent's own reasoning state across edit sessions, enabling coherent multi-turn editing conversations.
5.4 Deliverables
1. Edit intent classification agent (LangGraph node or chain) with test coverage across at least 10 edit
query types.
2. State snapshot system with version history UI panel.
3. Undo/revert functionality that correctly restores both assets and the pipeline JSON state.
4. A short demo video or screen recording showing: initial generation → 3 edits → 2 reverts.
6. Division of Work
Each member owns one primary phase end-to-end, including its API integrations, data schema compliance, unit
tests, and documentation. Member 4 additionally leads the editing agent.
Member Primary Phase Key Responsibilities
Member 1 Phase 1 — LLM Story & Script

Pipeline

Prompt engineering, JSON schema design, LLM
integration (local + API), character roster generation
Phase 2 — Audio Generation & TTS TTS integration (ElevenLabs/Coqui/Bark), voice
consistency, music selection, timing manifest output

Member 2 Phase 3 — Video Generation &

Composition

Stable Diffusion/DALL-E visuals, FFmpeg animation, A/V
sync, subtitle overlay, MP4 export

Member 3 Phase 4 — Full-Stack App & Edit

Agent

FastAPI/Django backend, React/Next.js frontend,
LangGraph edit agent, state snapshot & undo system

Member 4 Phase 5 — Intelligent Edit & Version

Management

OpenCV Filters, FFmpeg, Editing tools

All four members are jointly responsible for: (1) the shared JSON state schema, (2) integration testing across
phase boundaries, and (3) the final project presentation and report.

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, Islamabad

Agentic AI Project 2026 Page 8
7. Deliverables
5. Source code repository (GitHub) with clear folder structure per phase and a root README.
6. Working web application demonstrating the full pipeline (live demo or recorded walkthrough).
7. Phase-level unit tests demonstrating each module's inputs, outputs, and error handling.
8. Project report (8–12 pages) covering system design, architecture diagram, API choices, challenges, and
results.
9. Final presentation (10–15 minutes) with live demo and Q&A.
10. Edit agent demo showing intent classification, execution, and undo in action.
8. Technology Stack Summary
Layer Primary Options Budget-Friendly Local Alt.
LLM / Agents Claude API, GPT-4, LangGraph Ollama + LLaMA 3 / Mistral
TTS ElevenLabs API Coqui TTS, Bark (local)
Image Gen DALL-E 3, RunwayML Stable Diffusion (local)
BGM MusicGen (Meta) Royalty-free library
Video Comp. MoviePy + FFmpeg FFmpeg only
Backend FastAPI + Uvicorn Django
Frontend React + Vite Next.js
State Store SQLite (LangGraph SqliteSaver) File-based JSON snapshots
9. Evaluation Criteria
Criterion What We Look For Weight
Phase 1 — Story & Script Agent Correct JSON schema, coherent
story, character consistency

15%
Phase 2 — Audio Generation Voice consistency, audio quality,
timing manifest accuracy

15%
Phase 3 — Video Composition Visual quality, A/V sync, smooth

transitions, final MP4

20%
Phase 4 — Web Interface UX clarity, real-time progress,
phase re-run capability

10%
Integration & Pipeline All phases chain correctly; shared

schema respected

10%
Report & Presentation Design clarity, architectural depth,

live demo quality

10%
Phase 5 — Edit Agent & Undo Intent accuracy, correct targeted

re-run, undo reliability

20%

National University of Computer and Emerging Sciences, Islamabad

Agentic AI Project 2026 Page 9
10. A Note to Your Group
This is an ambitious project — intentionally so. Agentic AI systems are the direction the industry is moving,
and building one from scratch, end-to-end, is exactly the kind of experience that sets graduates apart. The four
phases are designed to be independently buildable, so even if one phase is incomplete, the others can mock its
output and keep moving.
Start with Phase 1 together. Agree on the shared JSON schema in Week 1 before writing a single line of code
in any other phase. Everything else depends on it.

Good luck — the goal is a system you are genuinely proud to demo.